Blog: Bitcoin Core 28.0 Wallet Integration Guide (#1937)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/2024-10-09-wallet-integration-guide.md

---

> title: "Bitcoin Core 28.0 Wallet Integration Guide"

Reviewer: This title could potentially be interpreted as "how to integrate with the Bitcoin Core Wallet in 28.0" instead of "how to integrate a wallet with Bitcoin Core's 28.0 policy changes"

Here are some suggestions for titles that might be more to the point:
- Contracting Protocol Wallet Integration using Bitcoin Core 28.0
- Wallet Guide for Employing Bitcoin Core 28.0 Policies
- Wallet Integration Guide for Bitcoin Core 28.0 Policy Bundle
- What You Can Do With Bitcoin Core 28.0 Policy

Author: Hmm, maybe 

"Guide for Wallets Adopting Bitcoin Core 28.0 Policies" or 
"Guide for Wallets Integrating Bitcoin Core 28.0 Policies"

Second thoughts on the accessibility of the word "employing"

        ]
      }
    },
    "4333b3d2eea820373262c7ffb768028bc82f99f47839349722eb60c58cd65b55": {
      "txid": "6c2f4dec614c138703f33e6a5c215112bad4cf79593e9757105e09b09bf3e2de",
      "vsize": 110,
      "fees": {
        "base": 0.00005625,
        "effective-feerate": 0.00025568,
        "effective-includes": [
          "7d855ffbd8bc17892e28f3f326d0e4919d35c27a7370f5d9f9ce538e93a347cf",
          "4333b3d2eea820373262c7ffb768028bc82f99f47839349722eb60c58cd65b55"
        ]
      }
    }
  },
  "replaced-transactions": [
  ]
}
```

The 1P1C package has entered into the local mempool at an effective feerate of
25.568 sats per vB even though the parent transaction is below minrelay feerate.
Success!

## TRUC Transactions

Topologically Restricted Until Confirmation (TRUC) transactions, previously known as v3
transactions, is a new, opt-in, [mempool policy][policy series] aimed at allowing robust
replace-by-fee (RBF) of transactions, mitigating both fee-related transaction
[pinning][topic transaction pinning] as well as package limit pinning. Its central philosophy is: while many
features are infeasible for all transactions, we can implement them for packages

> with a limited topology, so we create a way to opt-in to this more robust set of

Reviewer 2: > I see a few reference in the repo of usage as is, so Ill leave it for now

Ok, but despite being a frequent error, "opt-in" as a verb is incorrect; the verb is non-hyphenated.

https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/opt-in

policies in addition to the topological restrictions.

In short, a TRUC transaction is a transaction with an nVersion of 3, which
restricts the transaction to either a singleton of up to 10kvB, or the child of

> another TRUC transaction capped at 1kvB. Non-TRUC and TRUC transactions can not

Reviewer 2: s/can not/cannot/

maybe use consistent units, i.e. between "sats per vB" and "1kvB"

be spent together unconfirmed in the mempool. All TRUC transactions are

> considered opt-in RBF regardless of [BIP125][] signaling. If another un-conflicting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
considered opt-in RBF regardless of [BIP125][] signaling. If another non-conflicting
```

TRUC child is added to the parent TRUC transaction, it will be treated as a

> conflict with the original child, and normal RBF resolution rules apply

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
conflict with the original child, and normal RBF resolution rules apply,
```

including feerate and total fee checks.

TRUC transactions are also allowed to have any transaction fee, including 0-fee,
provided a child transaction bumps the overall package feerate sufficiently.

This topology also neatly falls within the 1P1C relay paradigm regardless of
what transaction counterparties do, assuming all versions of signed transactions
are TRUC.

TRUC payments are replaceable, so any transactions with inputs not owned at
least in part by the transactor can be double-spent. In other words, receiving

> zero-conf TRUC payments is not safer than non-TRUC ones.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
zero-conf TRUC payments is not safer than receiving non-TRUC ones.
```

## 1P1C-topology Package RBF

Sometimes the 1P1C package’s parent conflicts with the in-mempool parent. This
can happen when there are multiple versions of the parent transaction presigned.
Previously the new parent would be considered for RBF alone, and discarded if
the fee was too low. With 1P1C topology package RBF, the new child will also be
included for consideration in the RBF checks.

> This allows a wallet developer to get robust transmission of 1P1C packages

Reviewer 2: "This" is?

Author: Took a crack at rewording

through the P2P network, regardless of what versions of transactions have hit
their local mempool.

Note that currently the conflicted transactions all must be singletons
themselves or 1P1C transaction packages with no other dependencies, also known

> as clusters. Otherwise the replacement will be rejected. Any number of such

Author: Tapping in @instagibbs on this one

> as clusters. Otherwise the replacement will be rejected. Any number of such

Reviewer 3: dropping the reference to clusters is fine.

      "fees": {
        "base": 0.00001000,
        "effective-feerate": 0.03480113,
        "effective-includes": [
          "fe15d23f59537d12cddf510616397b639a7b91ba2f846c64533e847e53d7c313",
          "256cebd037963d77b2692cdc33ee36ee0b0944e6b9486a6aaad0792daa0f677c"
        ]
      }
    },
    "256cebd037963d77b2692cdc33ee36ee0b0944e6b9486a6aaad0792daa0f677c": {
      "txid": "858fe07b01bc7c1c1dda50ba16a33b164c0bc03d0eff8f9546558c088e087f60",
      "vsize": 110,
      "fees": {
        "base": 0.00764625,
        "effective-feerate": 0.03480113,
        "effective-includes": [
          "fe15d23f59537d12cddf510616397b639a7b91ba2f846c64533e847e53d7c313",
          "256cebd037963d77b2692cdc33ee36ee0b0944e6b9486a6aaad0792daa0f677c"
        ]
      }
    }
  },
  "replaced-transactions": [
    "bf9164db69d216da4af6d9c720a0cec6d7e0bafb1702fdf8c2cd5606101576de",
    "6c2f4dec614c138703f33e6a5c215112bad4cf79593e9757105e09b09bf3e2de"
  ]
}

```

## Pay To Anchor (P2A)

[Anchors][topic anchor outputs] are defined as an output that is added solely to allow a child
transaction to CPFP that transaction. Ideally these outputs are just at “dust”
satoshi values, and are immediately spent.

> A new output script type, [Pay To Anchor (P2A)][topic ephemeral anchors], has been added which allows for an optimized “keyless”

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A new output script type, [Pay To Anchor (P2A)][topic ephemeral anchors], has been added that allows for an optimized “keyless”
```

> version of anchors. The output script is “OP_1 <4e73>” which requires no witness

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
version of anchors. The output script is “OP_1 <4e73>”, which requires no witness
```

data to spend, meaning a fee reduction compared to existing anchor outputs and
allows anyone to spend it.

> This new output type has a dust limit of 240 satoshis.

Author: added

> 

Author: Added a version of this

fdee3b6a5354f31ce32242db10eb9ee66017e939ea87db0c39332262a41a424b

# Replaced prior package
bitcoin-cli -regtest getrawmempool
[
  "fdee3b6a5354f31ce32242db10eb9ee66017e939ea87db0c39332262a41a424b"
]

# For child, burn value to fees, make 65vbyte tx with OP_RETURN to avoid tx-size-small error
bitcoin-cli -regtest createrawtransaction '[{"txid": "fdee3b6a5354f31ce32242db10eb9ee66017e939ea87db0c39332262a41a424b", "vout": 1}]' '[{"data": "feeeee"}]'
02000000014b421aa4622233390cdb87ea39e91760e69eeb10db4222e31cf354536a3beefd0100000000fdffffff010000000000000000056a03feeeee00000000

# No signing required; it’s witness-free segwit
bitcoin-cli -regtest -rpcwallet=test sendrawtransaction 02000000014b421aa4622233390cdb87ea39e91760e69eeb10db4222e31cf354536a3beefd0100000000fdffffff010000000000000000056a03feeeee00000000
8d092b61ef3c1a58c24915671b91fbc6a89962912264afabc071a4dbfd1a484e

```

## User Stories

Moving on from the more general release notes level feature description, we will

> describe a few common wallet patterns and how these can benefit from these

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
describe a few common wallet patterns and how they can benefit from these
```

> updates, with or without the wallets making active changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
updates, with or without the wallets' needing to make active changes.
```

Author: Going to leave as is

### Simple Payments

> If users wish to have more predictable RBF behavior, one way would be to opt-in

Reviewer 2: idem as https://github.com/bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io/pull/1937/files#r1790864578

> to TRUC transactions. If adapted, wallets should only use confirmed outputs for
> TRUC transactions and construct them to stay within 10kvB (as opposed to the
> 100kvB non-TRUC limit). This restricted limit still supports larger batch
> payments as well. If a wallet has no choice but to spend an unconfirmed input,
> if that input comes from a TRUC transaction, this new transaction would need to
> be below 1kvB.

Reviewer: For this and all of the examples, I would suggest turning this into a bulleted list for clarity (presumably we use this to write code). Also, "if that input comes from a TRUC" isn't correct
```suggestion
to TRUC transactions. If adapted, wallets should:
- set version to 3
- only use confirmed outputs
- stay within 10kvB (as opposed to the 100kvB non-TRUC limit).
  - This restricted limit still supports larger batch payments.
  - If a wallet has no choice but to spend an unconfirmed input, the input must come from a TRUC transaction, and this new transaction needs to be below 1kvB.
```

Author: Took this

be able to create arbitrary chains of transactions off of the payment, pinning
the user. Incoming payments could also be robustly bumped via an up to 1kvB
spend of the incoming deposit output.

### Coinjoins

In the [coinjoin][topic coinjoin] scenario where privacy is the focus but the coinjoin is not
attempting to be covert, TRUC transactions for the coinjoin itself may be
worthwhile. The coinjoin may have insufficient feerate for inclusion in the
blockchain requiring a small bump of a participants’ coins.

Along with TRUC transactions, a P2A output could be added allowing for a
segregated wallet like a watchtower to pay for the transaction fees alone.

If other participants spend their unconfirmed outputs, TRUC sibling eviction
will ensure that the other spends can be replaced even if not directly
conflicting, preserving TRUC topology limits.

Pinning caveat: Participants in the coinjoin may still economically grief the
transaction by double-spending their own input to the coinjoin, requiring the
coinjoin to RBF the griefer’s first transaction.

### Lightning Network

Transactions generated in the Lightning Network protocol consist of a few main
types:

> 1. Funding transactions: Single-party funded or “dual”-party funded

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Funding transactions: 
```

I don't like putting _dual_ in quotes without explaining why (I know it's because many uses of dual-funding are still single funded, just with a different party funding).  Since we don't mention single or dual funding later in the article, I think we can omit them here for simplicity.

transactions to set up the contract. Less time sensitivity to confirm.
2. Commitment transactions: The transaction that commits to the latest state of the
payment channel. These transactions are asymmetrical, and currently require a
“update_fee” message bi-directionally to update how much of the funding output
value is given to fees. The fees must be enough to propagate the latest version
of the commitment transaction into miners’ mempools.
3. HTLC presigned transactions

With 1P1C relay and package RBF, upgrading Bitcoin Core nodes significantly

> increases the security of the Lightning network. Lightning unilateral closes can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
increases the security of the Lightning Network. Lightning unilateral closes can
```

be accomplished with commitment transactions with below mempool minfee feerates,
or conflicting with another low-fee commitment transaction package that wouldn’t
be promptly included in a block.

To take the maximal advantage of this upgrade, wallets and backends should
integrate with the **submitpackage** Bitcoin Core RPC command:

```hack
bitcoin-cli submitpackage ‘[“<commitment_tx_hex>”, “<anchor_spend_hex>”]’
```

Wallet implementations should integrate their software with the command using
the commitment transaction as well as an anchor child spend to ensure inclusion
into miners’ mempools with the appropriate feerate.

> Note: The RPC endpoint supports many-child, single-parent packages, but these

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Note: The RPC endpoint will return success if you submit a many-child, single-parent package, but these
```

Just want to make it a bit more clear that they won't receive any indication that propagation is unlikely to succeed from the RPC if they're dependent on a 1p1c RBF.

With TRUC + P2A Anchors, we can reduce the blockspace usage of the current two
anchors down to a single keyless anchor. This anchor requires no commitment to a
public key or  signatures, saving additional blockspace. The fee bumping can
also be outsourced to other agents that have no privileged key material. Anchors
could also consist of a single output with shared key material between the
counterparties rather than P2A, at the cost of additional vbytes in the benign
unilateral close case.

Similar strategies can be pursued when implementing advanced features such as
splicing, to reduce the risk of RBF pinning. For example, a TRUC channel splice
that is less than 1kvB in size could CPFP another channel's unilateral close,
without exposing the bumper to RBF pins. Subsequent bumps can be done in series
by replacing just the channel splice transaction. This comes at the cost of
revealing the TRUC transaction type during splices.

As you can see, significant complexity can be avoided and savings achieved with
the updated features, provided each transaction can fit into the 1P1C paradigm.

### Ark

Not all transaction patterns fit into the 1P1C paradigm. A prime example of this

> is [Ark][topic ark] outputs, which commit to a tree of presigned(or covenant committed)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is [Ark][topic ark] outputs, which commit to a tree of presigned (or covenant committed)
```

> is [Ark][topic ark] outputs, which commit to a tree of presigned(or covenant committed)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is [Ark][topic ark] outputs, which commit to a tree of presigned (or covenant-committed)
```

> transactions to unroll a shared UTXO.

Reviewer: I feel like this is missing a bit of background before you get into the ideal unilateral close, as a non-Ark-expert. Here are some questions that come up for me, and maybe they can be incorporated into the description here:
- When does a unilateral close happen? Is it initiated by a user, and the idea is they should be able to get their money out? Is it supposed to be a common occurrence?
- What transactions are involved in a unilateral close?
- Are these txns with shared UTXOs + presigned like in LN? Who can pin us - is it just the service provider, or can somebody else add a descendant to make it difficult to CPFP?
- Is there a time window? What happens if the unilateral close takes too long? Does the user lose money?

Reviewer 3: > When does a unilateral close happen? Is it initiated by a user, and the idea is they should be able to get their money out? Is it supposed to be a common occurrence?

It happens primarily if the ASP(Ark Service Provider) goes offline, or is censoring users. It's used in the same sense as LN, to make it non-custodial. It should Never Happen(TM) for scalability reasons.

> What transactions are involved in a unilateral close?

A Merkle branch of the tree essentially, with log(n) inner nodes and a final state transaction. 

> Are these txns with shared UTXOs + presigned like in LN? 

Yes, starting with a shared root with all N participants(could be hundreds, thousands potentially).

>  Who can pin us - is it just the service provider, or can somebody else add a descendant to make it difficult to CPFP?

Either could. You can imagine thousands of people trying to unilaterally exit at the same time could be problematic with intentional and accidental pins. Each participant is attempting to get into a block, each posting their merkle branch, hitting chain limits pretty fast potentially if not carefully designed.

> Is there a time window?

There's a weeks(?) time window where the Ark "times out" and the ASP can simply sweep all the remaining utxos from the old tree, without having to unroll the tree.

Author: Punting to @instagibbs on this suggestion

Reviewer 3: could add some text:

"If an Ark Service Provider (ASP) goes offline or process a transaction, the user can choose to do a unilateral exit, which involves the user submitting a series of transactions to unroll their branch place in the transaction tree. This requires O(logn) transactions. Difficulty can arise if other clients are also attempting to leave the tree exceeding mempool chain limits, or creating conflicting transactions with insufficient fees for timely inclusion in a block. If a particularly long time window elapses without inclusion, the ASP is able to recoup all the funds unilaterally, resulting in user funds loss."

Reviewer: That's what I was looking for, thanks! Lmk if this is correct / can be added as penultimate sentence:
"Since all participants' transactions stem from the same root transaction, any user can pin another user's exit through dominating the descendant limit."

Reviewer 3: Yes. Once the root is confirmed, then the population is split in half and this "game" repeats. For simplicity I think just sticking with what you said is best though.

Ideally the initial unilateral close of an Ark tree would be:

1. The publication of an entire merkle branch to the underlying virtual
UTXO(vUTXO)
2. Each of these transactions are 0-fee, to avoid fee prediction or the
requirement to decide who pays fees a priori
3. The ultimate leaf transaction has a 0-value anchor spend where the CPFP
pays for the entire merkle tree’s publication to a miner’s mempool and inclusion
in a block

To execute this ideal properly, we are missing a few things:

1. General package relay. We have no method currently of propagating these
chains of fee-less transactions over the P2P network robustly.
2. If too many branches are published at low feerates, this can result in

> users being unable to publish their own branch promptly due to cluster limit

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
users being unable to publish their own branch promptly due to descendant count limit
```

> pinning. This could be disastrous as the number of counterparties becomes large,

Reviewer: You haven't defined cluster limit, and cluster limits don't exist yet. Maybe describe descendant limit pinning, and add a sidenote that the same issue persists even with cluster mempool

Author: @instagibbs

> as is in the idealized Ark scenario.

Reviewer 2: "as in the" or "as is the case in the"

> 3. We need generalized sibling eviction We don’t have 0-value output support

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. We need generalized sibling eviction. We don’t have 0-value output support
```

for valueless anchors.

Instead, let us try to fit the required transaction structure into the 1P1C
paradigm as best we can, at the cost of some additional fees. All Ark tree
transactions, starting at the root, are a TRUC transaction and add to it a
minimal satoshi value P2A output.

When a transactor chooses to unilaterally exit from an Ark, the user publishes
the root transaction plus spend of P2A for fees, then waits for confirmation.
Once confirmed, the user submits the next transaction in their merkle branch,

> along with its own P2A being spend for CPFP. This continues until the whole

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
along with its own P2A being spent for CPFP. This continues until the whole
```

merkle branch is published and the funds are safely extracted from the Ark tree.
Other users of the same Ark may maliciously or accidentally submit the same
inner node transaction with too low a feerate, but sibling eviction would ensure
that at every step honest child transactions below 1kvB could RBF competing

> children without requiring all other outputs be locked, or multiple anchors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
children without requiring all the other outputs be locked, or multiple anchors.
```

Author: Going to leave as is

Assuming binary trees, this comes at the asymptotic cost of nearly 100% vbyte
overhead versus the idealized Ark for the first user, and roughly 50% over the
whole tree if it completely unrolls. For 4-nary, this diminishes to ~25% over
the whole tree.

### LN Splices

Other topologies also come up in more advanced Lightning Network constructs that
may need some work to match with 1P1C relay.

Lightning Network [splices][topic splicing] are an emerging standard and in general use already.

> Each splice is a spending of the original funding output, re-depositing contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each splice spends the original funding output, re-depositing contract
```

funds into a new funding output, with the same presigned commitment transaction
chain as before. While unconfirmed, the original channel state and new channel
state(s) are simultaneously signed and tracked.

One example that could exceed the 1P1C paradigm is the case where:

1. Alice and Bob fund a channel.
2. Alice splices *out* some funds to an on-chain address controlled by Carol,
who is using a cold set of keys, so she cannot CPFP. This splice-out is shooting
for confirmation within hours.

> 3. Bob’s machine shuts down, or node force closes for some reason as too-low

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Bob’s machine shuts down, or node force closes for some reason, such as a too-low
```

feerate.
4. A new BRC-20 issuance occurs and feerates skyrocket, delaying confirmation of
the splice-out transaction unduly.

> Alice wants the on-chain payment to Carol happen, so she does not go to chain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alice wants the on-chain payment to Carol to happen, so she does not go to chain
```

with a commitment transaction without the splice. This means
splice_tx->commitment_tx->anchor_spend becomes the required package to make this
propagate.

Instead, let us consider how to fit it within the 1P1C paradigm, without unduly
wasting vbytes when unnecessary. A LN wallet could instead of running one

> splice-out per on-chain payment, could do 2 splice-outs, since they’re

Reviewer 2: there is one "could" too many in this sentence

conflicting. One version uses the relatively conservative feerate chosen by the
fee estimator. The other version could include a P2A output at 240 satoshis, or

> 0 satoshis in the future with Ephemeral Dust.

Reviewer 2: could link to Ephemeral Dust here

> 0 satoshis in the future with Ephemeral Dust.

Reviewer: hmmm might be less confusing to leave this out for now... and we can do a 29.0 wallet integration guide? With Ephemeral Dust, LN symmetry, blackjack, etc?

Reviewer 3: A mention somewhere might be helpful for people who are confused how Ephemeral Anchors disappeared as a single idea.

First, broadcast the non-anchored splice-out.

If there’s no fee event: it is confirmed, and Alice can continue the force close
as normally if desired.

If there is a fee event: The first splice-out is taking too long. Next,
broadcast the 1P1C splice *with* anchor along with anchor spend, achieve
confirmation and payment to Carol, then continue with the force close if
desired.

> More copies of splice-outs could also be issued at various fee-levels, but note

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More copies of splice-outs could also be issued at various fee levels, but note
```

properly developed and deployed widely on the network, package relay would
allow wallet developers to bring fees to a transaction via related transactions,
allowing low-fee ancestors to be included in the mempool.

In Bitcoin Core 28.0, a limited variant of package relay for
packages containing 1 parent and 1 child ("1P1C") was implemented. 1P1C
allows a single parent into the mempool, regardless of the dynamic mempool
minimum feereate, using a single child transaction and a simple [Child Pays For
Parent(CPFP)][topic cpfp] fee bump. If the child transaction has additional unconfirmed
parents, these
transactions will not successfully propagate. This restriction simplified the implementation
greatly and allowed other mempool work, such as [cluster mempool][topic cluster mempool], to continue
unabated while still targeting a large number of use-cases.

Unless a transaction is a [TRUC transaction][topic v3 transaction relay] (described later), every
transaction must still meet a *static* 1 satoshi per virtual byte minimum.

One final caveat to the feature is that the propagation guarantees for this release
are also limited. If the Bitcoin Core node is connected to a sufficiently

> determined adversary, it is possible to disrupt propagation of the parent and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
determined adversary, they can disrupt propagation of the parent and
```

  "tx-results": {
    "7d855ffbd8bc17892e28f3f326d0e4919d35c27a7370f5d9f9ce538e93a347cf": {
      "txid": "bf9164db69d216da4af6d9c720a0cec6d7e0bafb1702fdf8c2cd5606101576de",
      "vsize": 110,
      "fees": {
        "base": 0.00000000,
        "effective-feerate": 0.00025568,
        "effective-includes": [
          "7d855ffbd8bc17892e28f3f326d0e4919d35c27a7370f5d9f9ce538e93a347cf",
          "4333b3d2eea820373262c7ffb768028bc82f99f47839349722eb60c58cd65b55"
        ]
      }
    },
    "4333b3d2eea820373262c7ffb768028bc82f99f47839349722eb60c58cd65b55": {
      "txid": "6c2f4dec614c138703f33e6a5c215112bad4cf79593e9757105e09b09bf3e2de",
      "vsize": 110,
      "fees": {
        "base": 0.00005625,
        "effective-feerate": 0.00025568,
        "effective-includes": [
          "7d855ffbd8bc17892e28f3f326d0e4919d35c27a7370f5d9f9ce538e93a347cf",
          "4333b3d2eea820373262c7ffb768028bc82f99f47839349722eb60c58cd65b55"
        ]
      }
    }
  },
  "replaced-transactions": [
  ]
}
```

The 1P1C package has entered into the local mempool at an effective feerate of
25.568 sats per vB even though the parent transaction is below minrelay feerate.
Success!

## TRUC Transactions

> Topologically Restricted Until Confirmation (TRUC) transactions, previously known as v3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Topologically Restricted Until Confirmation (TRUC) transactions, also known as v3
```

> transactions, is a new, opt-in, [mempool policy][policy series] aimed at allowing robust

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transactions, is a new, opt-in [mempool policy][policy series] aimed at allowing robust
```

replace-by-fee (RBF) of transactions, mitigating both fee-related transaction
[pinning][topic transaction pinning] as well as package limit pinning. Its central philosophy is: while many
features are infeasible for all transactions, we can implement them for packages
with a limited topology, so we create a way to opt-in to this more robust set of

> policies in addition to the topological restrictions.

Reviewer: Might be worth putting this in bold and/or giving it its own paragraph/section, to highlight what it's all about

In short, a TRUC transaction is a transaction with an nVersion of 3, which
restricts the transaction to either a singleton of up to 10kvB, or the child of

> exactly one TRUC transaction capped at 1kvB. Non-TRUC and TRUC transactions cannot
> be spent together unconfirmed in the mempool. All TRUC transactions are

Reviewer: This sentence kind of confused me. Spent together, as in share a child? But we already know they can't have multiple parents. It's also not covering the exact rule. Maybe

```suggestion
exactly one TRUC transaction capped at 1kvB. A TRUC transaction cannot spend a non-TRUC transaction, and vice versa. All TRUC transactions are
```

considered opt-in RBF regardless of [BIP125][] signaling. If another non-conflicting
TRUC child is added to the parent TRUC transaction, it will be treated as a
[conflict][topic kindred rbf] with the original child, and normal RBF resolution rules apply,
including feerate and total fee checks.

> TRUC transactions are also allowed to have any transaction fee, including 0-fee,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TRUC transactions are also allowed to be 0-fee,
```

provided a child transaction bumps the overall package feerate sufficiently.

The limited topology also neatly falls within the 1P1C relay paradigm, regardless of
what transaction counterparties do, assuming all versions of signed transactions
are TRUC.

TRUC payments are replaceable, so any transactions with inputs not owned at
least in part by the transactor can be double-spent. In other words, receiving
zero-conf TRUC payments is not safer than receiving non-TRUC ones.

## 1P1C-topology Package RBF

Sometimes the 1P1C package’s parent conflicts with the in-mempool parent. This
can happen when there are multiple versions of the parent transaction presigned.
Previously the new parent would be considered for RBF alone, and discarded if
the fee was too low.

With 1P1C topology package RBF, the new child will also be
included for consideration in the RBF checks, allowing a wallet developer to get robust transmission of 1P1C packages
through the P2P network, regardless of what versions of transactions have hit
their local mempool.

> Note that currently the conflicted transactions all must be singletons

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that, currently, the conflicted transactions all must be singletons
```

      "txid": "f17146d87a029cb04777256fc0382c637a31b2375f3981df0fb498b9e44ceb59",
      "vsize": 110,
      "fees": {
        "base": 0.00001000,
        "effective-feerate": 0.03480113,
        "effective-includes": [
          "fe15d23f59537d12cddf510616397b639a7b91ba2f846c64533e847e53d7c313",
          "256cebd037963d77b2692cdc33ee36ee0b0944e6b9486a6aaad0792daa0f677c"
        ]
      }
    },
    "256cebd037963d77b2692cdc33ee36ee0b0944e6b9486a6aaad0792daa0f677c": {
      "txid": "858fe07b01bc7c1c1dda50ba16a33b164c0bc03d0eff8f9546558c088e087f60",
      "vsize": 110,
      "fees": {
        "base": 0.00764625,
        "effective-feerate": 0.03480113,
        "effective-includes": [
          "fe15d23f59537d12cddf510616397b639a7b91ba2f846c64533e847e53d7c313",
          "256cebd037963d77b2692cdc33ee36ee0b0944e6b9486a6aaad0792daa0f677c"
        ]
      }
    }
  },
  "replaced-transactions": [
    "bf9164db69d216da4af6d9c720a0cec6d7e0bafb1702fdf8c2cd5606101576de",
    "6c2f4dec614c138703f33e6a5c215112bad4cf79593e9757105e09b09bf3e2de"
  ]
}

```

## Pay To Anchor (P2A)

[Anchors][topic anchor outputs] are defined as an output that is added solely to allow a child

> transaction to CPFP that transaction. Ideally these outputs are just at “dust”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transaction to CPFP that transaction. Since these outputs are not payments, they have have low, close to “dust”
```

satoshi values, and are immediately spent.

A new output script type, [Pay To Anchor (P2A)][topic ephemeral anchors], has been added, which allows for an optimized “keyless”
version of anchors. The output script is “OP_1 <4e73>”, which requires no witness

> data to spend, meaning a fee reduction compared to existing anchor outputs and
> allows anyone to spend it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data to spend, meaning a fee reduction compared to existing anchor outputs. It also
allows anyone to create the CPFP transaction.
```

> P2A can be used independently from TRUC transactions or 1P1C packages. A transaction with a P2A output but no child can be broadcast, though the output is trivially spendable.

Reviewer: "Similarly, packages and TRUC transactions do not need to have P2A outputs in order to use the new fee-bumping features."
